the way SEO is like a fishing contest
and when done right you can't lose
[Music]
hey I I'm Sam Dunning
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actual
featuring marketing website and SEO tips
useful goodies podcasts and more you can
give it a try over at businessgrowth dot
email
so what the heck do I mean when I say
SEO is like a fishing contest well if
you think of Google as being a giant
Lake in this contest and let's position
your company your brand as having an
unfair advantage in this contest because
you've got multiple lines in the water
your competitors might only have a few
lines going in but if you've got that
unfair Advantage you've got tons of
different fishing lines in every
different angle every different
opportunity you can catch the minnows
right through to the great salmon and
the blue whales that you're going to be
after so I'm going to dive in and give
you tips on how to leverage an unfair
Advantage when it comes to your SEO so
on Google organic search you want to
start by looking at the high intent
keyword opportunities and what I mean by
that is what would someone search today
if they were looking to have a sales
conversation with your team right here
right now and as I've mentioned on many
other episodes you want to start with
the long tail keywords so not just
generic Search terms so to use our
industry if someone just search websites
or web development they're probably
looking to learn more about the space
rather than speak to an agency or a
company probably trying to get insights
and do something themselves whereas if
we make that long tail and change that
to web development company rather than
just web development or B2B web
development change that to B2B web
development company or B2B SEO company
chances are because they've added that
company part onto the end
they want to speak to an agency and have
some kind of sales conversation so think
of those opportunities then you can use
tools like ahrefs semrush ubersuggest
Google Keyword Planner there's a bunch
of others as well you can type in those
opportunities or similar keywords around
them and then see what opportunities
there are so I.E how much traffic these
Search terms get what your current
positionings are what competitors are
ranking for them right now
and also how competitive those keywords
are one thing to consider is that
keyword search volume per month isn't
the be-all end-all some Search terms
might be very specific in Niche to your
industry and if they have not that much
traffic or competition that can be a
really good thing is they're not
necessarily going to yield tons of
traffic but when prospects search for
these things they could be super
relevant and have super high intent to
speak to your sales team
just like what we aim to rank for around
B2B SEO B2B SAS SEO B2B SAS web
development all these kind of Search
terms we go for with our agency we're
making sure their Niche they're honed in
to our target audience so think about
that use relevant tools make sure you're
mapping out those High intent Search
terms then building out service Pages
product pages article pages on your site
to rank for those
then once you have mapped out all the
high intent Search terms for prospects
that want to speak to cells today then
you can look at going slightly higher
the sales funnel for problem-based
searches that's what I mean by this uh
what are the common issues the common
frustrations the common problems the
prospects ideal clients come to your
team to fix each day so you can get this
information by knowing your idle
customers speaking to your best current
clients and listening into sales calls
or conducting them yourself with Target
prospects that you want to be doing
business with and if you don't do the
sales yourself then listening to calls
with gong chorus whatever cool recording
software you have available and then
understand what are these common issues
so for example in our world of B2B SEO
and websites that might be my website's
not converting how do I reduce my bounce
rate I'm not getting a steady flow of
leads through my website how do I
overtake competitors on Google how long
does it take to rank with SEO all these
common issues questions frustrations we
create content to attack it directly
both with our videos on YouTube our
podcasts and article pages on our
website and some of these Search terms
what you find is they might not have a
ton of traffic or any traffic showing up
in the keyword search tools on ahrefs
semrush Etc but you know there's demand
there because you're getting these
questions every day so simply by putting
out content to attack that directly
you're going to show us the solution
provider to these issues you're going to
build trust in the market and that in
turn is going to build a long-term flow
of not only traffic but opportunities
for your sales team to fix those
problems for your idle clients
and then once you've identified all the
keywords all those Target Search terms
from high intent through to problem
searches and question searches that you
want to rank for you want to build Out
product pages service Pages or articles
where relevant so we can get those
ranking and serve our prospects the best
possible content so in our case on our
SAS web development page which ranks
page one right now for B2B SAS web
development and SAS web development in
the UK and a bunch of other countries to
give you an idea of the framework we
started off in this case with this
service Page by talking about what the
offer actually is
and we've got a social proof with client
testimonials and third-party reviews
we're talking about what the projects
entail why you should consider one what
the benefits are why you should launch
one a step by step of how you can launch
a SAS web project
popular types of SAS Web projects
examples in the real world how these are
priced up some featured case studies so
some examples that we can do what we say
we claim
a bit more about the costs than a video
run through
and then finally FAQs that are not only
answering questions but literally these
are questions we get on sales calls so
in our case how much does one cost how
long does it take how can we discuss a
project can you provide examples and can
you Market these so not only are we
answering common questions that we know
we get asked that are going to resonate
but also handling objections making
ourselves teams life easier whilst
giving valuable content to rank on
Google so this is quite a long form page
and to give you a couple tips
you want to actually Google these Target
Search terms that you're trying to rank
check what competitors are ranking well
right now and look for different angles
opportunities areas that you can surpass
their content in terms of handling
questions in terms of addressing pain
points giving social proof maybe you've
got unique Data Insights like stats
surveys
Etc maybe you've got a cool video
walkthrough maybe you can step by step
the process a lot better so look for all
those angles to improve the content give
a better user experience make sure it
works well on mobile tablet and PC have
clear social proof and call to actions
on your pages
and also do good technical SEO so page
titles
heading tags sort out your metadata so
your titles and descriptions it shows in
the search engine ranking Pages image
alt tags Etc make sure the page loads
nice and fast and then you can look to
start surpassing your competitors for
those Target keywords and ranking pages
so to summarize to win the fishing
contest that is showing in the top spots
on Google organic search you need to
understand what your ideal clients are
searching when they want to speak to
sales today right through to when they
have problems they want fixed and
questions they want answered so in order
to do so we've got to use tools to
actually see what those High intent
searches are and speak to our ideal
clients to know what their problems what
their questions they want answered are
and then address that directly with
service Pages product pages and article
pages on your website providing great
content that addresses all those points
builds trust handles objections and
guides them to take the next step and
the only thing we haven't talked about
is off-page SEO so building quality
links to then juice up those pages build
up those page rankings so if you are in
a niche sector just doing these on-page
techniques that we've talked about today
can be enough but when it gets to very
competitive Search terms you might want
to consider building quality backlinks
and there are many other episodes on the
YouTube channel and on the podcast with
lots of ideas to build backlinks for
both free and paid options and there we
have it I hope you found this episode of
use as always if you're on Apple or
Spotify a quick rating or review is
appreciated or on YouTube a subscribe
goes a long way and with that I'll catch
you on the next one cheers